Learning-to-Use-ERPLAB-Toolbox.md, before:

## Learning to Use ERPLAB Toolbox

Many sources of information are available to help you learn to use ERPLAB.  Here is what we recommend:

- Read the [installation information](./Installation) to make sure that you install ERPLAB correctly
- Read about [Basic ERPLAB Processing Steps](./Basic-ERPLAB-Processing-Steps) and [Important background concepts and data structures](./Important-Background-Concepts-and-Data-Structures)
- "Get your feet wet" by going through the first few chapters of the [ERPLAB Tutorial](./Tutorial) (through the point of making and plotting an averaged ERP waveform)
- Learn some important background by reading the following sections of the [ERPLAB manual](./Manual):
  - [Using EEGLAB](./Using-EEGLAB) (and perhaps some of the [EEGLAB documentation](.))
  - [The EventList Structure](./The-EVENTLIST-Structure)
  - [Boundary Events and Disabled Events](./Boundary-Events-and-Disabled-Events)
  - [Getting Useful Information from the Matlab Command Line](./Getting-Information-about-an-ERP-from-the-Matlab-Command-Line)
  - [Assigning Events to Bins with BINLISTER](./Assigning-Events-to-Bins-with-BINLISTER)
- Go through the rest of the [ERPLAB Tutorial](./Tutorial) (through the point of making and plotting an averaged ERP waveform)
- Learn how to perform [Behavioral Analyses](./Behavioral-Analyses)
- Learn how to write ERPLAB scripts with the [ERPLAB Scripting Guide](./Scripting-Guide)

Commit message:

Added link to the new ERP book

Learning-to-Use-ERPLAB-Toolbox.md, after:

## Learning to Use ERPLAB Toolbox

Many sources of information are available to help you learn to use ERPLAB. For a detailed introduction to both the software and the concepts underlying ERP processing and analysis, see Steve Luck's new book, [Applied ERP Data Analysis](https://doi.org/10.18115/D5QG92 ). It's available for free online, and it's filled with exercises using real data.

In addition, we recommend the following documents from the online ERPLAB documentation:

- Read the [installation information](./Installation) to make sure that you install ERPLAB correctly
- Read about [Basic ERPLAB Processing Steps](./Basic-ERPLAB-Processing-Steps) and [Important background concepts and data structures](./Important-Background-Concepts-and-Data-Structures)
- "Get your feet wet" by going through the first few chapters of the [ERPLAB Tutorial](./Tutorial) (through the point of making and plotting an averaged ERP waveform)
- Learn some important background by reading the following sections of the [ERPLAB manual](./Manual):
  - [Using EEGLAB](./Using-EEGLAB) (and perhaps some of the [EEGLAB documentation](.))
  - [The EventList Structure](./The-EVENTLIST-Structure)
  - [Boundary Events and Disabled Events](./Boundary-Events-and-Disabled-Events)
  - [Getting Useful Information from the Matlab Command Line](./Getting-Information-about-an-ERP-from-the-Matlab-Command-Line)
  - [Assigning Events to Bins with BINLISTER](./Assigning-Events-to-Bins-with-BINLISTER)
- Go through the rest of the [ERPLAB Tutorial](./Tutorial) (through the point of making and plotting an averaged ERP waveform)
- Learn how to perform [Behavioral Analyses](./Behavioral-Analyses)
- Learn how to write ERPLAB scripts with the [ERPLAB Scripting Guide](./Scripting-Guide)
